MY SUCCESSFUL VBAC STORY

PART 1

As salaam alaikum wa rehmatullah,my intend to write this story is to bring awareness among moms that everything is possible when you are focused & determined with whatever you do, submitting yourself to Allah SWT & knowing that he will definitely make out a way for you.

To add more,

There will be obstacles,
There will be doubters,
There will be mistakes,
But with hard work,
There are no limits.
-Michael Phelps

MY FIRST BABY

My first pregnancy was as smooth as the second one but not as reassuring & supportive as I wanted it to be.
The knowledge I mastered during my first pregnancy wasn't enough to take decisions of my own.the end result of this was a c-sec.

It was then i started looking at the possibilities & outcomes that would have been avoided for a surgery.

FAST FORWARD TO SECOND PREGNANCY

I conceived my second baby during the month of February 2018 when my first was around 20 months old.the first thing I started looking for after conceiving was my possibility of having a VBAC.

I was doing my own research & learning from various VBAC supportive groups where in mothers used to post inspiring VBAC stories,reading those posts every day would help me build up my confidence so much.

I used to talk about my concerns & fears with my Doula as she was my only friend I knew personally who had a successful VBAC.

She suggested me to hire a doula & look for an ob-gyn who was VBAC friendly,I was living in Qatar & have already planned to fly to India during my 7th month.

Meanwhile,I started contacting birth centers & Doctors in India through Emails, nothing was working out much.I was just praying hard to Allah that he facilitates a way for me through which I can be successful in this journey.

5 months of my pregnancy progressed & there was still no hope of getting in contact with someone who would support me,I kept praying,I believed in the conviction of Allah.My routine checkups got started.I was still doing my own research without knowing how things will fall into place.

I travelled back to India in my third trimester, started looking for pro natural doctors in India.
Although there were many doctors i could go for but those hospitals were far from my home,I wanted to labor at home for most of my time hence I went for Fernandez hospital, bogulkunta under the consultation of Dr.sreedevi.

Meanwhile my classes with my amani childbirth educator friend got started.
I was making sure that my husband is involved in all the things I am learning.every class would help me learn something new about my pregnancy.I was now more conscious about my diet,about my exercises & the way I was being accountable for each & everything I do for my baby.